---
tags: [mixed-reality,mathematical-learning]
---

## Augmenting Mathematical Learning with Mixed Reality (MR)

Mixed reality (MR) is an immersive experience that combines reality with manipulatable digital overlays, but unlike [[Virtual Reality]] (VR) and [[Augmented Reality]] (AR), mixed reality includes the user physically interacting with the digital elements of the system [^1]. However, MR behaves as a tool for augmenting mathematical learning in the same ways as VR and AR: enhancing the learners ability to visualize data.  Visualizing mathematical data helps learners enhance their education by assisting in comprehending various complex geometric shapes as well as other visual representations of data [^2]. Additionally, MR can be combined with [[game-based learning]] to increase motivation and mathematical engagement [^3] [^4]. An important advantage of MR is its interactivity, especially in younger children. Hands-on exercises are a strong tool for engaging students in the learning process, and allows for more information retention after a lesson [^5].

[^1]: L. Tremosa, ‘Beyond AR vs. VR: What is the difference between AR vs. Mr vs. VR vs. XR?', _The Interaction Design Foundation_. [Online]. Accessed: Oct. 25, 2022. Available: https://www.interaction-design.org/literature/article/beyond-ar-vs-vr-what-is-the-difference-between-ar-vs-mr-vs-vr-vs-xr.
[^2]: E. Nardi, ‘Reflections on Visualization in Mathematics and in Mathematics Education’, in _Mathematics & Mathematics Education: Searching for Common Ground_, M. N. Fried and T. Dreyfus, Eds. Dordrecht: Springer Netherlands, 2014, pp. 193–220. doi: [10.1007/978-94-007-7473-5_12](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-94-007-7473-5_12).
[^3]: M. R. Lepper and D. I. Cordova, ‘A desire to be taught: Instructional consequences of intrinsic motivation’, _Motivation and Emotion_, vol. 16, no. 3, pp. 187–208, Sep. 1992, doi: [10.1007/BF00991651](https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00991651).
[^4]: J. Huizenga, W. Admiraal, S. Akkerman, and G. ten Dam, ‘Mobile game-based learning in secondary education: Engagement, motivation and learning in a Mobile City Game', _Journal of Computer Assisted Learning_, vol. 25, no. 4, pp. 332–344, 2009.
[^5]: T. Bredderman, ‘Effects of Activity-Based Elementary Science on Student Outcomes: A Quantitative Synthesis’, _Review of Educational Research_, vol. 53, no. 4, pp. 499–518, 1983, doi: [10.2307/1170219](https://doi.org/10.2307/1170219).