---
tags: [mobile, mathematical-learning, application]
---
## Learning Math with Mobile-Based Learning

Mobile-Based learning refers to applications and software that is used on a mobile device like a smartphone or tablet. This [[learning]], like [[Web Based Learning]], is particularly appealing for educational institutions because of its ease of use and accessibility. For mathematics, mobile-based learning is used for completing homework and tracking progress as well as providing students with additional exercises outside of a textbook environment. Additional features of mathematical mobile-based learning softwares is the amount of tools available. Mobile calculators and graph interfaces allow students to focus on learning the concepts, anywhere and at anytime [^1]. However, it should be noted that even though smartphones are ubiquitous in todays society, not every student may have access to one at all times or access to an internet connection. Furthermore, like a lot of systems targeting young learners, these mobile-based applications often utilize [[Game-Based Learning]]. For younger-aged students, games are used to increase engagement and enjoyment with mathematical concepts as seen in [[Albert]]. In contrast, for older students ([[high school]] and [[university]]), applications are more professional and are mostly utilized for progress and activity completion tracking.

[^1]: A. Drigas and M. A. Pappas, ‘A Review of Mobile Learning Applications for Mathematics’, _Int. J. Interact. Mob. Technology_, vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 18–23, 2015.