---
tags: [virtual-reality,mathematical-learning]
---

## Virtual Reality (VR) in Mathematical Learning

In typical mathematics education, students are shown a problem, walked-through the solution, and then are directed to practice similar problems to grasp the new concept with the additional assistance of a textbook. This method, while traditional, does not incorporate technology. With the influx of technology in educational settings, using [[Technological Pedagogical Content Knowledge|TPACK]] as a model, Virtual Reality (VR) devices are being studied to augment [[learning]] in various topics. For VR, a special focus is placed on manipulating and modelling geometric shapes, with additional applications that allow for visualization of functions and fractals in other areas of mathematics like algebra. Research shows that visualization can assist mathematical learning and creating systems to augment this with technology is an opportunity to enhance mathematical education. This field of study, the combining of mathematics and computer science, is called mathematical visualization [^1] [^2].  These VR tools specifically augment the cognitive activity of learning mathematics by creating an environment in which learners can visualize concepts they otherwise would not have had the mental availability to create. 

[^1]: E. Nardi, ‘Reflections on Visualization in Mathematics and in Mathematics Education’, in _Mathematics & Mathematics Education: Searching for Common Ground_, M. N. Fried and T. Dreyfus, Eds. Dordrecht: Springer Netherlands, 2014, pp. 193–220. doi: [10.1007/978-94-007-7473-5_12](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-94-007-7473-5_12).
[^2]: R. Palais, ‘The Visualization of Mathematics: Towards a Mathematical Exploratorium’, _Notices of the American Mathematical Society_, vol. 46, no.6, pp. 647–658, 1999.